# Cybersecurity Scholarships funded by the United State Government

Here are some options to consider if you're thinking about ways to have your
university expenses paid by the US government.

## Military Enlistment

Joining the military immediately after high school. If you choose this route
after high school you will be joining the enlisted ranks for a multi-year
military service commitment. It requires the least education, but you will have
comparatively little choice in what you end up doing for the duration of your
service commitment. Officers will make most of the decisions on your behalf;
becoming a military officer almost always requires a college degree. You may
well spend more of your service time doing non-infosec tasks. You cannot quit or
resign until the end of your service commitment.

## Military Service Academies

After graduating high school, apply to one of the military service academies,
e.g. West Point for the Army and the Naval Academy at Annapolis. These are
prestigious and highly competitive universities. You'll get a degree, start
military service as a commissioned officer, and also have a multi-year service
commitment to the military after university. You will get to request what kind
of job you get after university, but the military will ultimately decide. You
cannot quit or resign until the end of your service commitment.

## ROTC and/or Military immediately after Univerity

After graduating high school, attend a university with an ROTC program. They'll
pay your university expenses, give you training, you'll graduate as a
commissioned military officer, and also have a multi-year service commitment to
the military. You will get to request what kind of job you get after university,
but the military will ultimately decide. If you decide to leave ROTC before
graduation, you will be required to pay back all or a portion of your expenses.
After graduation, you cannot quit or resign until the end of your service
commitment.

## Scholarship for Service (non-military)

Toward the end of high school, apply for the Scholarship for Service:
https://www.sfs.opm.gov/ContactsPI.aspx. You'll attend a 2- or 4-year college or
university of your choice. You will have a multi-year service obligation to the
US government rather than the military. You are guaranteed a position upon
graduation, but you are free to select your own assignment. You are free to
transfer jobs within the government and generally have relatively broad autonomy
over your choice of work. You can resign, but if you resign prior to the end of
your service commitment, then you will owe the remaining balance of your
education expenses. If you are departing civil service before the service
commitment ends, often a prospective employer will pay the balance for you.

## Agency-specific programs

Yet another option you can pursue while still in high school is to become an
intern at either the National Security Agency (NSA) or Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). Both of these organizations are unique
among government agencies because they take high school students as interns for
cybersecurity programs.

### Stokes @ NSA

The [NSA Stokes scholarship
program](https://www.intelligencecareers.gov/nsa/nsastudents.html) accepts high
schoolers.

They pay your university expenses, you only work during the summers AND you get
a salary year-round even while you're back at school.

### CISA

CISA also has [programs](https://www.cisa.gov/cyber-interns) available to high
schoolers.


# Observations

In all cases, your government wages/compensation after graduation will be
somewhat lower than if you joined a private company. Both military and civilian
government jobs will generally invest more in your training and professional
development than a private company. A common path is to start one's career in
military or civilian civil service, benefit from good training and experience,
and then transition to the private sector after 3-4 years of experience.
